In this video, we're going to get a better idea of what this English bracket syntax is really doing
for us.
If you are already familiar with TypeScript and understand what generics are, you can skip over this
video entirely.
Otherwise, take around the angle bracket syntax we see right here is the generic syntax inside a typescript.
You can really think of these generic things as essentially being functions or types.
Let me give you an example right now.
When we call model, we've got a function invocation right here or the set of parentheses.
When we normally call a function inside of TypeScript or JavaScript, we pass in a set of arguments
and those arguments customize how that function behaves.
The same thing is true for this list of generic type arguments as well.
You can really think of these as being some arguments to the function of model, but instead of being
a data type or an actual value like let's say a string of user or this user schema thing, it is instead
a type.
So again, you can think of these as being types being provided to a function as arguments.
To really get a better idea of what's going on behind the scenes.
I'm going to hold down command on my keyboard and then click on Model.
If you're on windows, you'll probably want to hit control and then click instead.
That will take us to the definition of what the model function is.
This is the typescript definition of that function, not the actual JavaScript implementation.
So there is a function called model and we can optionally provide two generic types to it.
So here is generic type number one and generic type number two.
I know the syntax in here is really crazy, but all you really need to understand once again is that
these are essentially arguments that we are providing to this function.
They are not arguments in the same sense as normal arguments to a function that we're used to.
Instead, they are customizing types.
So if you go back over to where we followed model, we provided two types, user doc and user model.
So those are going to show up as argument one and argument two.
So argument one is referred to as t that name.
T Right there is the same as though we had some kind of argument name such as name or schema.
We also have a second type argument that's going to be called you.
We can take a look at the function definition and get a better understanding of how these different
types are actually being used.
In particular, let's take a look at you right here.
You'll notice that that you type is being used down here at the very end.
Remember that the syntax right here is referring to the type of value that the function of model is
going to return.
So this right here says that whenever we call model, we are going to be returning type U.
And what is type you?
Well, it's whatever we pass in as the second generic type argument to the model function.
In our case, our second type argument is user model.
And that means that we are saying that the model function overall is going to return something of type
user model.
And so if I actually go back over to and hover over user right here, it says that user is going to
be of type user model.
If I change this second argument right here to anything else, then the model function is going to return
a value of type, whatever I put in there.
So for example, if I type in any now TypeScript.
TypeScript thinks that the model function is going to return a value of type any.
And so if I go and take a look at what gets assigned to user, now user is of type any as well.
Okay.
So I'm going to revert that back over to user model.
So again, this is referred to as generics in TypeScript.
This is a very brief, very brief summary of what they're all about.
They essentially allow us to customise the types being used inside of a function, a class or an interface.
We don't really need to understand a lot more beyond that right now.
I just want to give you a very quick understanding of what this stuff is being used for.
Okay.
So let's take a quick pause right here and continue in just a moment.